# TMDB-Movie-EDA

## Background Info

In this project, I performed exploratory data analysis on a dataset of 5000 TMDB movies in order to figure out the current and future trend for the movie industry: what kinds of movie are popular, how to maximize the ROI of a movie.

## There are four parts in the report： 
1.Problem Statement
2.Data Cleaning
3.Data Visualization
4.Summary

## Data Cleaning is the hard part of the project:

1）There is a large number of Json data in the dateset, it's necessary to convert the Json data into a Python object.
2）One-hot encoding will be applied to to categorical variables, creating new features for each category.

Data Source：https://www.kaggle.com/tmdb/tmdb-movie-metadata

The features in tmdb_5000_credits.csv：

movie_id: A unique identifier for each movie.

title: The movie name 

cast: The name of lead and supporting actors. 

crew: The name of Director, Editor, Composer, Writer etc. 

The features in tmdb_5000_movies.csv：

budget: the budget for a movie

genres: The genre of the movie, Action, Comedy ,Thriller etc.

keywords: The keywords or tags related to the movie.

popularity: A numeric quantity specifying the movie popularity.

productor: The production company of the movie.

countries: The country in which it was produced.

release_date: The date on which it was released.

revenue: The worldwide revenue generated by the movie.

duration: The running time of the movie in minutes.

status: "Released" or "Rumored".

score: The average score on TMDB the movie received.

vote_count: The count of votes recieved.

There is more information in the TMDB_Movie_EDA workbook. 
